README.md, before:

# supervised-machine-learning-hw
this is a repository for challenge #19 on supervised machine learning in my data analytics bootcamp.

# Supervised Machine Learning Homework - Predicting Credit Risk

In this assignment, you will be building a machine learning model that attempts to predict whether a loan will be approved or not. 

## Background

Lending services companies allow individual investors to partially fund personal loans as well as buy and sell notes backing the loans on a secondary market. This data will be used to determine whether a borrower is creditworthy and should be issued a loan. 

You will be using this data to create machine learning models to classify the risk level of given loans. Specifically, you will be comparing the Logistic Regression model and Random Forest Classifier.

## Instructions

### Retrieve the data

The data is located in the Resources folder.

* `lending_data.csv`

Import the data using Pandas.

## Consider the models

You will be creating and comparing two models on this data: a logistic regression, and a random forests classifier. Before you create, fit, and score the models, make a prediction as to which model you think will perform better. You do not need to be correct! Write down your prediction (in markdown cells in your Jupyter Notebook or in a separate document), and provide justification for your educated guess.

## Fit a LogisticRegression model and RandomForestClassifier model

Create a LogisticRegression model, fit it to the data, and print the model's score. Do the same for a RandomForestClassifier. You may choose any starting hyperparameters you like. Which model performed better? How does that compare to your prediction? Write down your results and thoughts.

## Rubric

[Unit 19 - Supervised Machine Learning Homework Rubric](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eZcQul7s2gy6h9flygyPdajSPUtqOQUuGL1XXcuX6p4/edit?usp=sharing)

### References

Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data generated by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand, and is intended for educational purposes only.

- - -

© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.

Commit message:

Updatedreadme to contain prediction and reflection

README.md, after:

# Prediction:
This dataset is a collection of numerical data. The random forest and logistic regression algorithms are used for many different methods of classification and regression. I believe that the logistic regression will be a better fit for the data,as there are few 'explanatory variables' in the dataset.

# Reflection:
As I predicted, the logistic regression performed better than the random forest algorithm, however I did not expect the two to have such close scores (logistic regression score = 0.9918 , random forest regression score = 0.9915). Perhaps there will be a larger difference between the two if the data is scaled.

# Supervised Machine Learning Homework - Predicting Credit Risk

In this assignment, you will be building a machine learning model that attempts to predict whether a loan will be approved or not. 

## Background

Lending services companies allow individual investors to partially fund personal loans as well as buy and sell notes backing the loans on a secondary market. This data will be used to determine whether a borrower is creditworthy and should be issued a loan. 

You will be using this data to create machine learning models to classify the risk level of given loans. Specifically, you will be comparing the Logistic Regression model and Random Forest Classifier.

## Instructions

### Retrieve the data

The data is located in the Resources folder.

* `lending_data.csv`

Import the data using Pandas.

## Consider the models

You will be creating and comparing two models on this data: a logistic regression, and a random forests classifier. Before you create, fit, and score the models, make a prediction as to which model you think will perform better. You do not need to be correct! Write down your prediction (in markdown cells in your Jupyter Notebook or in a separate document), and provide justification for your educated guess.

## Fit a LogisticRegression model and RandomForestClassifier model

Create a LogisticRegression model, fit it to the data, and print the model's score. Do the same for a RandomForestClassifier. You may choose any starting hyperparameters you like. Which model performed better? How does that compare to your prediction? Write down your results and thoughts.

## Rubric

[Unit 19 - Supervised Machine Learning Homework Rubric](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eZcQul7s2gy6h9flygyPdajSPUtqOQUuGL1XXcuX6p4/edit?usp=sharing)

### References

Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data generated by Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand, and is intended for educational purposes only.

- - -

© 2021 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
